Hey there, welcome to the Posit Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Herron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12 p.m. U.S. Eastern Time.
If you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there. So today I am super excited to introduce Tom Grace and Darren
Cope from HMRC. Let's start with Tom. Tom, I would love it if you could introduce yourself,
tell us a little bit about your role, and maybe a little bit about HMRC in general.
Okay, hello. So yeah, I'm Tom. HMRC, for those who are unfamiliar or from outside of the
UK, is the tax office. My role is as a tech lead on the Posit platform team. So what we
do is we build the Posit installations. We have about seven or eight of those now of
Workbench and Connect. We build those, and we make sure that they are shaped the right
way so that the data scientists across the organisation can do the best work they can.
The tech lead thing is it's partly technical, but it's also quite heavy on the culture aspect
of leadership. So it's making sure that our team is a good team to be on, and also making
sure that we are approachable and can be, and find it easy to be empathetic with those
who are using the platforms and systems that we build to win. That's broadly, that's my
role within the broader picture of it. I can explain a bit more about HMRC if you need.
You've got some pretty big datasets, jumped across quite a lot of different things.
I think that the coolest thing that you said in that whole thing was that you have a Posit
platform team, which means you have a team of people dedicated to making sure that people
can use the tools that you have and know how to use them. You can use them effectively.
I think that that's really rare and kind of amazing because I can hear from people in
the chat, I'm sure all the time, that we get tools from vendors, from suppliers, and
then they kind of come to our organization and die out. Nobody knows how to use them.
They're not very well supported. It really takes an internal effort to make sure that
that happens. And it sounds like you all do that in a wonderful way. Well, I want to invite
Darren to tell us a little bit about his role at HMRC or give us some extra context
on HMRC. Darren, are you with us? There he is.
Can you hear me?
Yes, we can hear you.
Oh my God, it works. I am on my phone. How thoroughly modern. All the devices fail me.
All right, I can hear you now. Yes, I can. For a little bit it was ringing, but you're good now.
Oh, hooray, hooray. This is the wonders of working in the office. Tom has fortunately
worked from home and so has wonderful Wi-Fi.
Uh-oh. I think that we lost him.
Oh, am I breaking up?
Yep, just a little bit.
Oh no, no, I had to stand next to the window. Well, concentrate on Tom. We'll see how we get on.
Would you like me to do a quick introduction of Darren?
I was going to say that would be fantastic because I know that Darren is a POSIT subject matter expert, which is a very unique role.
I'm not sure I know any other POSIT subject matter experts at other organisations. Tom, what is Darren's role on the team?
So Darren is part of, he sits between the platform team and also our fairly new POSIT adoption team.
And it's his job to understand the nuts and bolts of what it is people need to do on the platform.
So the platform team themselves are coming at it from the perspective of, oh, we've got some servers over here.
And Darren's coming at it from the perspective of I've got some data sets.
How do I get access to those? What do I want to do with them?
What kind of problems are coming down the track? How can we use this better?
Are there situations where people are using legacy tooling at the moment where with a bit of support,
they could move across to something that's a bit more modern and easier to work with?
So it's a greater focus on user need rather than the technical aspect of it.
Spending a bit of time trying out, like kicking the tyres on the AI functionality,
playing with new tools and approaches and just building a bit of an understanding and relationship with people from that end.
Right. One thing I heard from Darren was that when I talked to him earlier this week,
he said, I just came out of a coffee and coding session for people who want to use POSIT tools and have never used them before.
And he had over 160 people in there, which is wild.
That's that's as many people as we have on the hangout call right now. Right.
So all those people from your organization who are interested in using different tools,
who get the chance to have an empathetic person sitting there and saying, like, let me just walk you through how this works.
Let me show you what this is like.
And I know that a lot of the people at your organization who are interested in using these tools are coming from other things like SAS.
Do you still have like a whole lot of SAS users inside of your org?
Yes. I mean, it's a very large organization. We pretty much we've got a whole number of everything users.
There's a fair number of SAS users. There's, as you'd expect, shed loads of Excel users.
But probably pretty much any large enterprise tool that you can think of.
There's a fair few users of that. There are people who are perhaps multi-decade SAS users who would be interested in moving across.
But it's quite a it's quite a learn learning curve for them.
It is. Yeah. I really love the way that you all approach it with lots of empathy and and kindness and stuff.
And Darren also mentioned doing roadshows to other teams.
So like going into other teams and saying, hey, it seems like maybe you all would like to move to open source tool solutions here.
Let me show you what this can do, which is, I also think, a really, really unique thing inside of the organization.
OK, well, let's pivot just a little bit so that I can backtrack slightly and ask another context building question,
which is about the tools that you all use, the problems that you face and the kinds of data that you see.
So for people who are not in a tax focused area and maybe don't have the experience of that,
could you tell us a little bit about maybe an example of a type of problem you tackle, the type of data that you see in the tools you use?
Or that your teams use that you support? Yes. Yeah. So, yeah, I don't do any data analysis myself,
but it's the organization covers everything from things like import and export duty.
So there are teams who are doing things like running analysis on bulk corporate,
like corporate returns, or they are looking back at the historical data, looking for patterns.
There are teams who are modeling proposals for the government around, you know, if we introduce this, what might that do?
There are teams who are doing things like looking for the logo on the Internet.
There are teams doing loads and loads of different things, and it is a huge gulf of different.
It's a huge gulf of different things, but we have using just POSIT, I think we are edging towards about 600 analysts
and they are in a huge variety of areas and also experience levels or kind of focus areas.
So there are people who are doing, who are building tooling to use AI models to expose internal documentation better.
But there are also people who are just doing kind of routine, almost like an enhanced spreadsheet type work.
It's a huge breadth of things. It's massive, the scope sideways of it.
But I'm not super close to the day to day of what people are doing.
They come when there is a problem shaped like, I wish this machine was bigger.
Well, that's what I would love to ask you about, too. When you say POSIT, like we use POSIT as a tool,
POSIT is also this like multifaceted thing with all these different things inside of it.
Do you have a lot of R users who are in RStudio or Positron?
Do you have a lot of Python users who are in Positron?
What does that sort of composition look like for you as far as the people that you're serving?
It varies a bit between teams. I think we're about 50-50 between or maybe slightly under 50-50.
Slightly fewer R users than Python users.
And the Python users are mostly between Positron and VS Code, gradually going more Positron.
We have got some people using Jupyter still. And we try and support just whatever tools work best for people.
So we try as hard as we can not to push people in a particular direction,
but to make available the things that are right for their use case and to talk to them about why a certain thing is easy or hard.
In terms of things deployed to Connect, the majority these days are Python.
I think the future for Connect apps seems like it's quite heavy on Python, at least for the more sort of trailblazing type stuff.
But we've got plenty of Shiny and plenty of R as well.
So when you say Python, is that more like Streamlit apps being launched in Connect?
Yes.
Streamlit, OK.
Yeah.
Very cool. So we've got Streamlit, we've got Shiny, we've got deployment on Connect.
We have got a really cool split of R and Python users, which I feel like I also don't hear very often.
I think that's very cool.
And it leads me to an anonymous question that we have in Slido.
Let me go highlight it.
We'll send it to the top.
And don't forget, you can go upvote questions if you see any that you like, everybody.
This question says, when people suggest new tools that they want to use, what is the most helpful information that they share?
How does that process go?
This says, in short, can you help teach us how to get things approved by our own teams?
The way we tend to work, if people come and say, if I take a simple example, like an extension to Positron, which is pretty easy for us to do,
the main questions we'd have is, what's the licensing like?
What's the support and how actively maintained is it?
And is it solving a unique problem that is not solved by something else that's already available?
So something like that is quite simple for us to do.
The main reason we don't just blanket allow VS Code extensions is we need to make sure we keep them maintained for the foreseeable future so that we don't pull the rug on anybody.
For more significant kind of technologies, say if we were introducing Connect now as new.
Pretty big.
Yeah, something big like that.
The main thing is, what does this give that what you have available now does not provide?
Is this, what can you do now?
Can you build an EC2 server and stick your Python app on it?
Why isn't that good enough?
What's it bringing that what you have available can't provide now?
And the way we work, the amount of evidence increases with how complex that piece of work is.
So an example where we didn't implement it was looking at the inference servers for some of the self-hosted AI models.
We were experimenting with those early on before we had access to models provided by cloud providers.
And playing with those, we did experiment with whether we would benefit from the inference server.
There were some costs, there were some complexities.
There is business approval and support type stuff.
And that's quite a high bar.
So the effort needs to be worth it.
And I think the thing where there's maybe a gap sometimes is when people are asking about new things.
They're seeing it in a, I can grab this on my laptop at home.
I can make it available. And if I get bored of it in six months, I can get rid of it.
Where for quite a few larger organizations in particular, they're looking at it and going, as soon as you put that there, we're running it for 10 years.
That is going to be used by someone and we're going to have to maintain it.
Right. Someone's going to have to keep it clean.
Yeah, it's going to have to keep working for a long time.
We do that even with the VS Code extensions.
We're expecting that we will have to keep these available.
And so we do make more of a hurdle to bringing them on.
Just because we don't want to pull things away from people later.
Right. Yes. Yeah. I think that the bigger your organization gets, the harder that process gets.
And it's understandable with that kind of scale.
I wanted to go back to something you said about like, you know, could you just spin up an EC2 server and stick this on there and would that suffice?
That reminds me that you all have some dynamic allocation happening where you are allowing people to sort of choose their own compute and giving them budgets.
And I had forgotten about that. I'd love you to talk about that just a little bit.
So people have some context around that as well.
Because I think it's very cool.
So, yeah, that's that's been very popular with people.
So that's the thing that we did a small scale rollout of sometime last year.
And it's getting gradually getting more adoption now.
It's kind of built on it. Well, it's built on top of the Slurm launcher inside Workbench.
And what we've done is configured that in such a way that instead of having a static Slurm cluster and slotting things onto it, we launch EC2 instances as people request them.
But the thing that's been very popular is in the dropdown, you have a list of instance types and it has the price per hour in dollars.
And so an analyst can be given a monthly or project budget.
They might choose to use that running a couple of different small instances for a couple of months, or they might choose to run a huge instance for a day.
But it puts it empowers them to make those decisions.
And we've built it in such a way that we can sort of follow the org chart.
So the senior management can set the overall budget and then team leads can be delegated down to and pass that out as appropriate.
And that has been incredibly popular.
The initial use case was people who needed to do some particularly large processing on an occasional sort of schedule.
And that sort of model is difficult to do with the way large organization budgets are set.
But using knowledge of how the organization thinks about budgets, we built a thing where they can go, OK, allocate this much money.
That's your pot for the year. Once it's gone, it's gone, which fits the budget cycle and can be then they can use it dynamically as they need.
And that's that's been very popular.
That's awesome. I feel like I mentioned earlier, we don't get to hear IT perspectives a lot.
And I have a couple of questions that are kind of along that sort of tack.
So I would love to hop over to Slido and ask some of those.
Natasha had asked. Let's see. Natasha had asked one.
And then there is also an anonymous one. Aha.
Here we go. We have an anonymous question that says, how do I find time for data science training if I'm struggling to complete routine work?
Oh, no, it's gone. OK, somebody somebody press something in Slido.
It's OK. It was at the bottom and it jumped to the top.
It says, how do I find time for data science training if I'm struggling to complete routine work tasks?
I am IT and I run a Posit Connect platform.
So this is an IT perspective, trying to keep track of business as usual, but also trying to make time for data science training.
Tom, do you all inside of your sort of admin or IT focus organization train in data science yourselves and try to keep up with what your end users are doing?
We we don't train formally, but as a team, we we have a system of dogfooding.
So if we've got. So we have our own tiny Posit Connect tenancy that we use for our own purposes.
And what we do is we use the tools that we manage to build internal things like dashboards.
So we have things like a release dashboard so people can see changes to the platform over time.
We build those things on top of Connect. We use it to do ad hoc analysis type things as we need to.
So we sort of bake it into our daily work. And maybe we try and budget in that.
It's valuable in and of itself to do things like that as part of the team culture.
We make sure that we don't overcommit as a team.
And so we make sure that we have enough time. So it's acceptable for someone to.
For example, instead of analyzing how long it took to do some tickets in Excel where it's familiar,
actually taking 10 times longer and doing it in Python or R in order to become familiar with those tools is an acceptable thing to do.
There have been a few examples where there would be something that we could do very quickly,
where people just use the tools they already know, smash the thing out.
But we've managed, we've structured the team in such a way that actually you can implicitly train.
I don't know how we'd do it if it was formalized training.
That might be more of a commitment, but making a bit of space in there to work like that.
It's the way we try and structure the team as best we can.
I think that that is a very brave answer because, oh, my gosh, when I'm looking at something and I'm like, I have to get this done.
And I know that I could learn something new by going the long way and using something different.
I really struggle with that. I just think, oh, no, I just have to get this done.
I've got to do it the way that I know. So that's wonderful advice.
And I think it's so difficult to actually take.
It's difficult to do as an individual contributor.
It needs to be an intentional feature of the team and an accepted thing, I think, by everyone involved.
No, no. You said exactly what I was thinking. It must be a team culture thing.
It's like this is an OK thing to do.
And we know that if you need to take an extra day to do this thing, it's OK because you're going to learn something new.
I think that's wonderful.
OK, so I mentioned that I saw a question from Natasha.
That was good. I'm going to send that one to the top and highlight it so that I can ask it for Natasha because she's got a little asterisk in there.
She says, I noticed that when someone uses programming languages that no one else at the company uses, there can be difficulties when they leave.
Either their work needs to be converted to another language or a new person needs to be hired who can use that different languages as it is.
How do you minimize this issue? Do you have any sort of thoughts on this from your perspective?
At the organization level, it's it's so big that we sort of don't end up with that problem within the team because we're a relatively small team.
So we are there's five of us pretty much.
Well, give or take. What we would tend to do is we try and minimize it.
And I think similar to when introducing a new tool, a similar approach of really justify why you need to bring it on.
If it is worth bringing on that new tool, it needs to be more than just a personal preference.
So we use a lot of Ansible for things. It's not something I like very much.
Not a fan of Ansible, but still using it because it's in wide use across the team and the wider team and is unlikely to go anywhere.
So at that side, try and avoid that problem. If it is worth bringing in, then try and make sure you're sharing work.
So something we do within the team is similar to the making the doing it the slow way to learn more things.
We try and have people who are less experienced take on areas of the system that they haven't used much before.
Again, it's a little bit slower, but we try and avoid having the issue where this person specializes in this area.
We still, as you'd expect, we still get things where someone is very familiar.
And so we would lean on them if something especially unusual happens.
But we will try and spread work around so that people do pick up that language that only one person uses.
And even if it is slower, it tends to be valuable because I think every every language has its own quirks and good sides, bad sides.
And I think for anyone who writes code, learning to write another language makes you better at the one you knew before, as well as teaching you about the other one.
So if you mostly write R, spending a few weeks being annoyed at Python or vice versa, you'll be you see new patterns, new approaches, and you will learn something from it.
It's it's not just a time sink.
Yes, and I wanted to highlight a couple of really great things in the chat because they sort of touch on this and are great examples of what other people do.
So Megan Harris says we do rotations on projects in my department.
So everyone has touched it at least one time.
And it's been a really great way to learn.
I love that.
And then Joseph said one mitigation approach we try is to keep a skills matrix for each team, which drives individual development plans as well to work on backups.
When a new tool is introduced, we make that part of the skills assessment slash development.
Amazing.
And yes, Rachel had said, Darren, if you are able to unmute and we want to test your sound and you have things to add on this, absolutely feel free to unmute if you're able.
I'm so sorry that your connection has been crummy today.
Natasha, thank you so much for asking that fantastic question.
And Rachel saw one in the chat that was great as well are actually in Slido.
Rachel, would you like to hop in and ask that one?
Yeah, it was actually my question, but I accidentally put anonymous in Slido.
That's okay.
People do that all the time.
I see replies that are like, oops, this was me.
But I was just trying to put myself in the mindset of different financial use cases.
And I was wondering if your team is integrating Posit and Excel.
I remember I used to hear so many Excel questions.
And I was wondering, is this still really relevant for people?
Like do stakeholders still want the reports to be in Excel?
That's not hugely my area in a sense.
So that sits more with our user base.
But from what I've seen, particularly for the things consumed by the senior stakeholders,
they're very happy to have things presented as a Connect app rather than something that they would then download.
I think that that seems to be where they're quite happy with it.
I think since a lot of the Excel type stuff is a link anyway, because it sits in SharePoint,
I think people are generally happier with here, have this link.
They don't really care if it's Excel or Posit.
But as I say, it's not really my bit.
I don't do huge amounts with the actual bones of the applications our users develop.
Well, this is a great question for the chat then.
Because in my experience, Excel and Word is where everything ends up.
And it's where every output needs to be.
Natasha says that, yep, stakeholders do in her organization.
Nikita says Excel is where all data ends up.
We have a lot of, yeah, Natasha says they're suspicious of R or they can't review it.
And that's what I see a lot is that we want to see it and play with it.
So there always needs to be a download button.
There always needs to be a way to get that so that I can touch it and I can write on it and do things with it.
I don't know if that will ever go away.
Zach says all roads lead to Excel.
Yes, for sure.
Okay.
I would love to hop back over to Slido.
And there was a question from Natasha that Natasha, I think we covered it.
So I'm going to mark it as answered.
It was like what kind of tools do you use, stuff like that.
I see you nodding.
Okay.
Great, great, great, great.
Good, good, good.
Oh, wait.
Hold on.
Adam Taggart had asked a question.
Well, it says Adam T, but I'm assuming that's Adam Taggart because I know who Adam is.
Hey, Adam, would you like to ask your question live?
So, hey, Tom.
How's it going?
Hello.
All right.
But actually living in the U.S., so it's interesting hearing about HMRC now that I'm way a ways.
But sounds interesting what you're doing.
Thanks for sharing your experience.
My question is about the large processing comment that you made.
You were talking about particularly large processing.
I know you were talking about SLURM at the time and like job loading and stacking it that way.
Could you give us an example of what large processing means for your team on the regular?
So is that high input output?
Is it high memory usage?
Or is it just massive raw data that you're trying to funnel into a process and get some meaningful output from?
The things we've seen so far are shaped like I need loads and loads of RAM and quite a lot of CPU on a single machine is the kind of use case we've seen so far.
So that's what brought about the SLURM based use case is people saying, actually, I want a machine with half a terabyte of RAM and I want it for a week to do this piece of work.
We don't or at least not within our space.
We don't have anything that works well at the moment for a like an ad hoc bulk processing type thing.
And we may want to get something with that later.
But, yeah, large scale tends to be if it's ad hoc, I want a single giant machine.
There are other systems dotted around that do more batch type stuff.
But the users of POSIT tend to be consumers of the outputs of those systems rather than actually doing a raw processing job on all of this type stuff.
So, yeah, that's roughly what big means.
There is some stuff as well using multiple GPUs for a few different bits of pieces.
So there's some GPU shaped stuff. There's some memory stuff.
I haven't seen any requests for giant IO type stuff as yet.
But, yeah, it tends to be memory for the most part.
Perfect. Thank you. Thank you for that question, Adam.
We have an anonymous one that you touched on a little bit earlier.
You had mentioned that you are kicking the tires on some of the AI functionality.
And this question says, in our team, we're considering AI for some sensible use cases.
However, management are really nervous about it.
Do you have any advice for handling this and providing reassurance?
Have you had any experience with it yet, Tom?
Not personally. It's more with our users.
So the way we've tended to do it is they will own the –
the team who are users of Posit would own the requirement and the risk and all of that.
Unfortunately, this is something that Darren is probably better placed to talk about.
Oh, Darren, I'm so sorry. We have a – we are missing you.
But it – so we've got – we have a lot of existing processes around things like data protection
and anti-bias and all of these kind of – they're all things you should be doing anyway,
but it's a large organization and so they are very much formalized.
Many of those things can be applied to the AI models.
You need to be able to honestly answer the questions that people would have if they're going through
something like a data protection assessment or a – because I imagine that your bosses,
their worry is if I'm standing in court because of a discrimination case,
because your AI has done something or a fraud thing, what do I say?
Can you point me at something that says this was in a way that kind of would stand up?
This was a reasonable thing to do. I think that's where the fear comes from,
but it is methodically and carefully taking through – taking it through the steps.
I suppose it's a similar thing to could we use a new cloud provider?
Can I put companies' documentation in Dropbox?
And you'd have to go through the steps to make that reasonable.
It's been fairly similar to that sort of approach.
It's similar and yet –
It's similar and yet a little bit more scary for everybody because it's still this like
unknown gray area. Megan had said in the chat our IT department handles all of the AI stuff.
There's people dedicated to analyzing the risk and the deployment of that and we have a separate VPN
that holds all the models and chatbots that we use. I think that that is a great interesting
perspective to share. If anybody else has perspectives on how their organizations handle AI
in responsible ways or ways that make them feel safe, I would love to hear about it. I would love
it if you could share. Okay, let's head back over to Slido. I saw a question in the Slido that was
about hiring and I didn't know, Tom, do you do any hiring? I know you're a tech lead.
Okay, all right, all right, no worries. Everything would be on the website though.
Okay, let's see. We had a question that was more about upgrading. There it is. Okay,
how often do you get to upgrade your Posit environment to bring in new packages, features,
etc.? I like this question because you had mentioned people requesting things like extensions
and Positron. When someone wants to use a package or a new tool, do you have a process that they
have to go through to get packages approved and then also versions of R and Python?
So packages as in like CRAN packages and Python packages, I'm assuming. Probably.
So we make those available via package manager and then we have a facility where the individual
teams are able to configure allow lists if they want to. So we would make PyPy available with
standard scanning stuff like x-ray, filtering out anything that's particularly malicious.
But then we have a facility where teams can configure their own allow lists by providing
a list of packages and then they can have a filtered view of package manager. And some do
that for safety reasons and some do it just so they don't get a sprawl of slightly different
implementations. When it comes to anything that would require an OS package, that we would roll
it into our standard release cycle. The way we do releases is we build everything into Docker
images just as a convenient deployment artifact. In our development environment, we build several
new versions per day and that gets rolled out to dev maybe once to three times a day.
Any change like adding a new package just goes through that process and then we apply updated
versions to each of our production tenancies on a for the most part monthly basis. But some of our
more trailblazing people do every two weeks. We pull in new versions of Posit roughly a week after
release for the most part. But for people who want to try things that are a bit newer, we also have
an environment that runs the daily builds of Workbench so that when we're chatting to our
friends in the kind of account and tech team, if they're telling us about shiny new things,
we can just open it and go, I don't like the shade of that. So, yeah, we have the daily
builds available as a test environment for our users as well. And we have it's all quite open.
So, our end users have access to our source code repositories. Some of them have made changes.
And, yeah, so, it's not crazy fast, but we can roll a new version out probably within about a
month of release to everybody. I would love to ask a little bit about how you communicate those
changes with people across the organization. Do you have a rolling newsletter that goes out by
email? Do you have a Teams channel where all of those updates are mentioned? Or do people get a
popup on their computer system that's like, hello, you have a new version, and this is what's
different? So, we tell people via a Teams channel that updates are coming. And we have prearranged
maintenance windows for each of the tenancies that align with what their priorities are. So,
there's an agreed it's kind of off the form the third Thursday of the month type schedule.
But also, we have kind of particularly engaged people from the Teams. So, the more trailblazer
users or the senior kind of senior not quite manager, but the more senior people, they come
to our planning sessions and stand-up sessions. So, people are aware of upcoming changes at the
point where we're discussing what we're going to do, and they will have feedback at that point.
Ah, before they come out.
Often, yeah. So, people will be talking to us about, yeah, things, you know. Often requests or
anything other than posit updates, usually those changes, they have come from users
directly logging JIRA tickets, then coming to our planning and discussing where they should be in
terms of priority, how broadly applicable those are, how soon they want them, that kind of thing.
Fantastic. Yeah, you have much more communication than I have experienced in a lot of places around
what's happening and why and getting sort of a roundup of feedback, which is, I think,
amazing. I keep wondering, I wonder if Tom and Darian know how unique the HMRC is in this aspect,
because it's just something I haven't seen in a lot of other places. Okay.
We do try and be very close to our users, and that is.
That's amazing.
It's not just the formal things like planning. So, we have Teams channels that are for questions and
support, and partly those are team specific, and they are for both things like what our library
would you recommend for this use case, and then people kind of self-answer for what suits their
team. We as the platform team sit in those channels and we'll jump, we'll see if people
are having challenges with things, and quite often what we might do is just give them a call and
watch someone struggle with however it is they're doing things, and then that might be,
oh, we could use some help here, or we need to make a change to make it harder for this error
to happen. Right.
And actually seeing how people use it, we've learned a lot more about how the system should be,
because we're approaching it from system administrator perspective, rather than
people who are doing data science things.
And, yes, so it's, yes, we might spend two hours on a call with an analyst talking to them about
how they are using Python and the issues they're having, and what we make available that might
make their lives easier. Right.
Can you remind us the scale that we're talking about here as far as the number of end users
who might be in one of those channels asking for help?
There's, I think we're getting close to 600 analysts.
Wow. That is a lot. And that's that blend of Python users and R users and all kinds of others.
Okay. Fantastic. I would love to head over to Slido. We have a couple more questions left,
and we have about 10 minutes left together. So I have a couple of questions here. One will be
a little bit more on the career advice end, so I'll save that until the end. It's Rachel's favorite
question, the career advice question. We'd love to get that in. But I wanted to ask this anonymous
one, which was, what was the change management process like from your experience, and how did
you overcome organizational inertia when moving to Posit? Did you experience much pushback?
Tom, were you at the organization when you actually adopted Posit first? You were not, right?
No, I wasn't there when it was adopted. I've heard anecdotally that
it, formerly the process wasn't, it, our process for adopting new things is,
it's slow, but it does kind of rumble through.
Getting new things is not that difficult as long as they're solving a completely new problem.
Right. Yeah. We talked about that.
I think my understanding is Posit came on during COVID when sort of emergency rules were a bit in
effect. Right. But I don't know, I don't know the details. I wasn't working at the organization at
the time. But yeah, I think it got in under the, that sort of, we have an urgent problem to solve.
And we need to figure it out right now. We had, everybody in the world had that problem
during this pandemic in so many different ways. I feel like that's why we're using Zoom right now,
because all of a sudden everyone was like, oh, we now all need to work and not see each other.
All right. Thank you so much, anonymous askers today. Yeah. And yeah, I'm sorry, I couldn't,
oh, actually. Oh, go right ahead. I could say for our routine, for our more routine change. So
not something big, like, oh, we'd like to adopt Posit, but for our change process for how we
update the platform, it was a empathy pretty much. So I come at change management from a
traditional I want to do thing, well, from an I want to do things background.
And what are all these people doing who have forms for me? And it took a chunk of time to
build empathy and trust between both us and the change management people that us understanding
what their priorities are, what they're trying to do, and that actually their remit goes beyond
protect the users, make sure there's not an outage. There's a lot more to it than that.
To protect the users, make sure there's not an outage. There's also the coordinating
wider business events where something we don't know about might depend on our system or
something we depend on might be changing at the same time, thinking about risks, making sure all
of the, you know, impact assessments and all of this stuff is in a sensible place.
And also, yeah, just the bigger picture. We spent a long time talking with the change management,
people, understanding, and also helping them understand what we do and that lots of the things
that they are in a fairly paperwork state in their world, we're doing automatically
automatically and showing them that actually we're ticking all the same boxes as you are,
but we're doing it in a different way. How do we bring those together?
And that was quite a long journey. But having gone through that, last time I went into the
office, I got a hug from someone who was from the change team having not all of this done.
And it's about relationships and empathy, pretty much.
Yep. Every single time. I love that. Remember that the people you're working with are indeed
human beings. Well, speaking of human beings, let's highlight some people from the chat here,
because there was a question asked in Slido that I don't think is particularly a Tom question. I
think this is much more of a community question. And sure enough, three different answers came in
from the community, and I would love to read some of these. So the question was,
sometimes it feels like only a few people on a team are stars who really move the needle.
As a leader, how do you raise everyone's level so the whole team performs like your top players?
What a good question. I'm going to read some of these answers that came in. And Tom, I will also
ask you for input if you have any experience here. So one of them is, what I try to do is find the
right task for the right person. If people enjoy what they're doing, they are more likely to
perform at a high level. As an IC, this is the answer for me. Give me something that I enjoy
doing, also something that's really in my wheelhouse and makes me feel comfortable and
is in alignment with my values, and I'm going to do it much, much, you know, at a much higher level
than I would otherwise. Another one is, you can also try pairing up the high performer with
someone who is just learning, and they can level up that way. What a great suggestion. I also think
that the higher level person will learn from the new person, because that sort of like feedback
loop definitely happens. And then another one is, the tasks we get come from stakeholders.
I've tried pairing, but this really doesn't move the needle and it's not scalable.
I know my team of 10 can all perform super well, but only two are really meeting customer needs
and are praised. I think that this is more of a question than an answer, but I think it might be
an interesting one to tackle if you have any feedback or advice on it, Tom.
I think something we try and do is we try and do things, particularly
when it comes to externally facing, so other stakeholders within the business, we try and
we try and act as a team doing these things, and we work in a way that all of us are comfortable with.
I don't really like to think of it in terms of people being high or low performers. There's a
set of work that needs to happen. People have got some specialisms and preferences, but the team
as a unit is trying to get things done. There is a, I feel there's a bit of a risk if you've got
too much of the kind of the hero culture type thing that can get you into a bad place.
It's a bit of a downer for people who aren't being specifically called out. It's obviously
good if it happens, but it feels like it shouldn't be especially routine. I particularly like it when
we get praised as a team. Occasionally, we've had feedback from people where they are calling out
the team as an entity who are delivering what people need, and I think that's a good thing.
You can make sure people are doing the right work that suits them,
but I'd also try and think in terms of is the team structured and is it receiving work in the
right way that allows everybody the time, the space to succeed, and also the space to be doing
things that aren't a strong suit so that they can learn from that. If you're running at 100%
capacity all the time, you're in trouble as soon as someone's, you know, they're a bit under the
weather or they're worried about something. If you're at that kind of capacity, it's going to be
bad, and maybe to push back a little bit on it, try and have a slower pace of deadlines, or
that kind of thing, but that also building trust with the wider organisation really helps with
that. So, when we don't get do-it type requests, we get conversations about what's possible,
how it might be doable, and we can start by having informal conversations that are a bit
that's going to be easy, that's going to be hard. You can have that in a couple of weeks,
and this will probably be eight months, and we have these kind of conversations.
Sometimes people go, actually, it's not worth that much effort, and you're having honest
conversations with stakeholders, and it's not kind of work flowing downhill, it's a collaboration,
and some of the collaboration is actually sometimes it's going to take us a bit longer
to do things, and it's a lot of trust-building to get to that point. We've done a huge chunk of that
just by doing this for a long time, but that's, yeah, I think it's trying to avoid the situation
is probably the way I would approach that. Well, I don't think I could have asked for a better piece
of career advice there, because all of that is such a good idea, but so hard to actually
implement, right? Like, stay at 85% capacity, allow yourself that buffer, build coalitions inside of
your organisation, build trust, work on things collaboratively. Everything is a good idea until
someone has to implement it, and it takes a long time. So, thank you so much for giving us all of your
wisdom today. Darren, if you are there and can hear us still, we missed getting to talk to you.
Hopefully, we'll talk to you again soon. So sorry you had connection issues. Tom, I hope you had a
good time today. Thank you for joining us. Yeah, that was fun. Thanks for having me. Wonderful. Thank you
for sharing all of HMRC's wisdom with us. We're so glad that you joined us today, everybody. I hope
that you join us on the 3rd with Satish at Johnson & Johnson. Sign up for that webinar, come hang out
with us then. And then next week, we're going to be joined by Samia Baig. I don't know how to say
Samia's last name. I'm going to have to ask her. She's a Senior Data Scientist and Data Engineer
at Johnson & Johnson Innovative Medicine, and I'm really excited to talk to her. All right, everybody,
have a wonderful weekend. Enjoy your Friday Eve, and we will see you at the webinar on Tuesday. Bye, everybody!
you